README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# UThwigl

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/benmarwick/UThwigl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/benmarwick/UThwigl)
[![AppVeyor build
status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/benmarwick/UThwigl?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/benmarwick/UThwigl)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/benmarwick/UThwigl/master?urlpath=rstudio)

The goal of UThwigl is to compute closed- and open-system
uranium-thorium (U-Th) ages of geological and archaeological samples.
Closed-system U-Th dating follows the principles presented in Edwards et
al. (2003), Richards and Dorale (2003) and Ludwig (2003). Open-system
U-Th dating is based on the diffusion-adsorption-decay (DAD) model of
Sambridge et al. (2012), which allows for advective and diffusive
transport of uranium and thorium isotopes, while including synchronous
radioactive decay.

The function, `csUTh()`, calculates closed-system ages and uses
(<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) and (<sup>234</sup>U/<sup>238</sup>U)
activity ratios on a single analysis to return an age in thousands of
years ago. The (<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) activity ratio is also
needed for detrital correction.

The function, `osUTh()`, calculates open-system ages and take the
(<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) and (<sup>234</sup>U/<sup>238</sup>U)
activity ratios collected along a transect perpendicular to the surface
of the tooth or bone and return an age in thousands of years ago.

## Web application

The package includes a web application that runs `osUTh()` in your
browser where you can upload your CSV file, set the model parameters,
run the model, and view the results. Choose this option is you are not
familiar with R. Here’s a screenshot of the web app:

![](/Users/bmarwick/Desktop/UThwigl/vignettes/figures/shiny-app-screenshots.png)

## Run code without downloading anything

You can run the package functions in your browser by [starting a binder
instance](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/benmarwick/UThwigl/master?urlpath=rstudio).
This will open RStudio in your browser, together with the contents of
this GitHub repository.

## Installing the UThwigl package on your computer

To install the development version of UThwigl from GitHub on your
computer, run:

``` r
source("https://install-github.me/tonydoss/UThwigl")
```

Please see the [vignette](articles/uthwigl.pdf) for an example of how to
use this package.

<!--
git remote add upstream https://github.com/tonydoss/UThwigl.git
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git merge upstream/master 
-->

Commit message:

update link to vignette to point to PDF in docs/

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# UThwigl

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/benmarwick/UThwigl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/benmarwick/UThwigl)
[![AppVeyor build
status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/benmarwick/UThwigl?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/benmarwick/UThwigl)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/benmarwick/UThwigl/master?urlpath=rstudio)

The goal of UThwigl is to compute closed- and open-system
uranium-thorium (U-Th) ages of geological and archaeological samples.
Closed-system U-Th dating follows the principles presented in Edwards et
al. (2003), Richards and Dorale (2003) and Ludwig (2003). Open-system
U-Th dating is based on the diffusion-adsorption-decay (DAD) model of
Sambridge et al. (2012), which allows for advective and diffusive
transport of uranium and thorium isotopes, while including synchronous
radioactive decay.

The function, `csUTh()`, calculates closed-system ages and uses
(<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) and (<sup>234</sup>U/<sup>238</sup>U)
activity ratios on a single analysis to return an age in thousands of
years ago. The (<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) activity ratio is also
needed for detrital correction.

The function, `osUTh()`, calculates open-system ages and take the
(<sup>230</sup>Th/<sup>238</sup>U) and (<sup>234</sup>U/<sup>238</sup>U)
activity ratios collected along a transect perpendicular to the surface
of the tooth or bone and return an age in thousands of years ago.

## Web application

The package includes a web application that runs `osUTh()` in your
browser where you can upload your CSV file, set the model parameters,
run the model, and view the results. Choose this option is you are not
familiar with R. Here’s a screenshot of the web app:

![](/Users/bmarwick/Desktop/UThwigl/vignettes/figures/shiny-app-screenshots.png)

## Run code without downloading anything

You can run the package functions in your browser by [starting a binder
instance](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/benmarwick/UThwigl/master?urlpath=rstudio).
This will open RStudio in your browser, together with the contents of
this GitHub repository.

## Installing the UThwigl package on your computer

To install the development version of UThwigl from GitHub on your
computer, run:

``` r
if(!require("remotes")) install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("tonydoss/UThwigl")
```

Please see the [vignette](docs/articles/uthwigl.pdf) for an example of
how to use this package.

<!--
# get Tony's changes
git remote add upstream https://github.com/tonydoss/UThwigl.git
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git merge upstream/master 

# update pkgdown
pkgdown::build_site()
-->
